{% include navigation.html %}
## 5.1 Tech Talk Notes
### Come up with three of your own Beneficial and corresponding Harmful Effects of Computing
Three beneficials effects of computing are that they allow real time collaboration and communication between people. They also allow more efficient work to be done, and allow information to be widespread and can be accessed from anywhere around the world. Computer also allows for saving space(storage) and allows tasks to be automated. 

However, on the flip side, there are also cons. These include a potential for the loss of privacy/data, since your data can be hacked into and stolen. Computers also cause all types of health problems, whether it be mental or phyical health issues. Computers can also cause a lot of wasted time as there are too many potential links you could click and lose track of time on. 
### Talk about dopamine issues above. Real? Parent conspiracy? Anything that is impacting your personal study and success in High School?
Dopamine issues are real and not a parent conspiracy. Dopammine is the hormone the body releases when it is happy. We get dopamine hits anytime we do something enjoyable. One of the biggest issues in todays day and age are that social media have created it so that everytime we scroll and see a new post, or a new comment, like a video, or share a video, we get little dopamine hits. This has created a culture where we are used to getting fast dopamine hits. This affects attention spans as once something doesn't give you a quick dopamine hit, you get bored and try to find something else. Furthermore, people are more likely to give up on things as they aren't looking long term, and get discouraged when they don't get the quick dopamine hits. I can relate to this as I can admit I spend too much time on social media scrolling endlessly. I think that sometimes I need to take a step back and stop scrolling. I also thinnk I need to work on looking at things long term so that I don't get discouraged so easily when things dont' work out right away. 

## 5.2 Tech Talk Notes
### How does someone empower themself in a digital world?
To empower themselves in a digital world, one can turn online. People can find thousands and thousands of pages of people like them, and find things in common with them. One can participate in the digital world, and use the knowlege they gain online to improve and utilize real life skills and interactions. 
### How does someone that is empowered help someone that is not empowered? Describe something you could do at Del Norte HS.
Somebody that is empowered could help somebody that is not empowered by including them in various forms of digital communication and utilization. They could teach them how to use certain feature online, which would help them become more empowered, or show them certain features, and expose them to the thousands of different websites, features, and technologies available on the internet. At Del Norte HS, I could help by creating videos that showcase different features of websites such as google drive, as some people don't know how to use this website, or don't know helpful tips and tricks. 
### Is paper or red tape blocking digital empowerment? Are there such barriers at Del Norte? Elsewhere?
When it comes to technology, there are many digital barries and red tape blocking people from reach certain websites. Howver, these are for the most part beneficial because they stop people from going to sites that could be potentially harmful for them or their computer. A Del Norte, certain site are blocked, such as innapropriate sites, or sites for gaming, which are distracting during school. 
